*19.09.2017*

#### Read

- [Complex selectors](http://learn.shayhowe.com/advanced-html-css/complex-selectors/)

## Complex CSS selectors
- [Descendant Selector](#descendant-selector)
- [Direct Child Selector](#direct-child-selector)
- [Sibling Selectors](#sibling-selectors)
- [Adjacent Sibling Selector](#adjacent-sibling-selector)
- [Attribute Present Selector](#attribute-present-selector)
- [Attribute Equals Selector](#attribute-equals-selector)
- [Attribute Contains Selector](#attribute-contains-selector)
- [Attribute Begins With Selector](#attribute-begins-with-selector)
- [Attribute Ends With Selector](#attribute-ends-with-selector)
- [Attribute Spaced Selector](#attribute-spaced-selector)
- [Attribute Hyphenated Selector](#attribute-hyphenated-selector)

#### Descendant Selector
We select all `<span>` elements inside `<article>` elements and change the font color to blue.
```css
article span { ... }
```

#### Direct Child Selector
We select only `<p>` elements that fall directly inside an `<article>` element.
```css
article > p { ... }
```

#### Sibling Selectors
The general sibling selector allow elements to be selected based on their sibling elements, those which share the same common parent
```css
h2 ~ p {...}
```

#### Adjacent Sibling Selector
The adjacent sibling selector will only select sibling elements directly following after another sibling element
```css
h2 + p {...}
```

#### Attribute Present Selector
The first attribute selector identifies an element based on whether it includes an attribute or not, regardless of any actual value. To select an element based on if an attribute is present or not, include the attribute name in square brackets, `[ ]`, within a selector.

CSS
```css
a[target] {...}
```
HTML
```html
<a href="#" target="_blank">...</a>
```

#### Attribute Equals Selector
Selects an element if the given attribute value exactly matches the value stated.

CSS
```css
a[href="http://google.com/"] {...}
```

HTML
```html
<a href="http://google.com/">...</a>
```

#### Attribute Contains Selector
Selects an element if the given attribute value contains at least once instance of the value stated.

CSS
```css
a[href*="login"] {...}
```
HTML
```html
<a href="/login.php">...</a>
```

#### Attribute Begins With Selector
Selects an element if the given attribute value begins with the value stated.

CSS
```css
a[href^="https://"] {...}
```

HTML
```html
<a href="https://chase.com/">...</a>
```

#### Attribute Ends With Selector
Selects an element if the given attribute value ends with the value stated.

CSS
```css
a[href$=".pdf"] {...}
```

HTML
```html
<a href="/docs/menu.pdf">...</a>
```          

#### Attribute Spaced Selector
Selects an element if the given attribute value is whitespace-separated with one word being exactly as stated.

CSS
```css
a[rel~="tag"] {...}
```

HTML
```html
<a href="#" rel="tag nofollow">...</a>
```       
#### Attribute Hyphenated Selector
Selects an element if the given attribute value is hyphen-separated and begins with the word stated.

CSS
```css
a[lang|="en"] {...}
```

HTML
```html
<a href="#" lang="en-US">...</a>
```  
