*20.09.2017*

#### Read

- [Pseudo classes and elements](http://learn.shayhowe.com/advanced-html-css/complex-selectors/#pseudo-classes)

## Pseudo-classes Overview
Pseudo-classes are similar to regular classes in HTML however they are not directly stated within the markup, instead they are dynamically populated as a result of users’ actions or the document structure. The most common pseudo-class, and one you’ve likely seen before, is `:hover`. Notice how this pseudo-class begins with the colon character, `:`, as will all other pseudo-classes.


#### Link pseudo-class
- `a:link` Selects a link that has not been visited by a user.
- `a:visited`	Selects a link that has been visited by a user.

#### Action pseudo-class
- `a:hover`	Selects an element when a user has hovered their cursor over it.
- `a:active` Selects an element when a user has engaged it.
- `a:focus` Selects an element when a user has made it their focus point.

#### State Pseudo-class
- `input:enabled`	Selects an element in the default enabled state.
- `input:disabled`Selects an element in the disabled state, by way of the disabled attribute.
- `input:checked`	Selects a checkbox or radio button that has been checked.
- `input:indeterminate`	Selects a checkbox or radio button that neither been checked or unchecked, leaving it in an indeterminate state.

#### Structural Pseudo-class
- `li:first-child` Selects an element that is the first within a parent.
- `li:last-child`	Selects an element that is the last within a parent.
- `div:only-child`	Selects an element that is the only element within a parent.
- `p:first-of-type`	Selects an element that is the first of its type within a parent.
- `p:last-of-type`	Selects an element that is the last of its type within a parent.
- `img:only-of-type`	Selects an element that is the only of its type within a parent.
- `li:nth-child(2n+3)`	Selects an element that matches the given number or expression, counting all elements from the beginning of the document tree.
- `li:nth-last-child(3n+2)`	Selects an element that matches the given number or expression, counting all elements from the end of the document tree.
- `p:nth-of-type(3n)`	Selects an element that matches the given number or expression, counting only elements of its type from the beginning of the document tree.
- `p:nth-last-of-type(2n+1)` Selects an element that matches the given number or expression, counting only elements of its type from the end of the document tree.

#### Target Pseudo-class
- `section:target` Selects an element whose ID attribute value matches that of the URI fragment identifier,.

#### Empty Pseudo-class
- `div:empty`	Selects an element that does not contain any children or text node.

#### Negation Pseudo-class
- `div:not(.awesome)`	Selects an element not represented by the stated argument.


## Pseudo-elements Overview
Pseudo-elements are dynamic elements that don’t exist in the document tree, and when used within selectors these pseudo-elements allow unique parts of the page to be stylized. One important point to note, only one pseudo-element may be used within a selector at a given time.

#### Textual Pseudo-elements
- `.alpha:first-letter`	Selects the first letter of text within an element
- `.bravo:first-line`	Selects the first line of text within an element

#### Generated Content
- `div:before` Creates a pseudo-element inside the selected element at the beginning
- `a:after`	Creates a pseudo-element inside the selected element at the end

#### Fragment Pseudo-element
- `::selection`	Selects the part of a document which has been selected, or highlighted, by a users’ actions
